[Rescue workers and medics work on victims outside a Paris restaurant, Nov. 13, 2015.
Michel Euler/AP
People leave the Stade de France stadium after the international friendly soccer France against Germany, Nov. 13, 2015 in Saint Denis, outside Paris.
The attacks took place at the theater, the Stade de France and four other locations in the 10th and 11th districts.
At Stade de France, Germany was playing France in soccer. Hollande was at the game at the time and was evacuated.
One witness, Margot Schmorak, told ABC News via Skype that one of the attacks "was around the corner from us, about a half a block down."
Schmorak and three colleagues "were sitting outside on sidewalk ... we heard a bunch of gun shots. Maybe 8 to 10, and then there was kind of a pause, and there was a few more."
"We actually said to each other, 'Is that gunshots or is it firecrackers or something else?' And then one of my friends actually said, 'I think it's gunshots.' And we saw people running from around the corner," she said.
Another witness, Emilioi Macchio, was at a bar when he heard gunshots, according to the Associated Press.
"It sounded like fireworks," Macchio said, the AP reported.
Police in Paris were recommending that residents avoid going out unless absolutely necessary and the subway system was shut down. All public buildings in Paris, including schools, museums, libraries and town halls, were closed indefinitely starting Saturday. The U.S. Embassy in Paris advises official U.S. personnel and citizens to shelter in place.
The Department of Homeland Security said it is closely monitoring the events in Paris and said there was no specific or credible threat to the United States. DHS said it's in contact with its counterparts in the area and "will not hesitate to adjust our security posture, as appropriate, to protect the American people."
Eagles of Death Metal, an American rock band that was performing at Bataclan on Friday, said in a statement, "We are still currently trying to determine the safety and whereabouts of all our band and crew. Our thoughts are with all of the people involved in this tragic situation."
Dominique Faget/AFP/Getty Images
People run after hearing what is believed to be explosions or gun shots near Place de la Republique square in Paris on Nov. 13, 2015.
Gérard Araud, the French ambassador to the U.S., said he was devastated by the carnage.
Sad, devastated and anguished for my country.
— Gérard Araud (@GerardAraud) November 13, 2015
Thibault Camus/AP Photo
Victims lay on the pavement outside a Paris restaurant, Nov. 13, 2015.
President Obama said from the White House Friday that, while the details of the attacks in France are unknown, the U.S. stands together with France "in the fight against terrorism and extremism."
Obama called France an "extraordinary counter-terrorism partner."
"Paris itself represents the timeless values of human progress," Obama said, adding that the "American people draw strength from the French people's commitment to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
A federal law enforcement source said the FBI set up a “command post” to help monitor and respond to the attacks. The FBI is actively trying to help French authorities, but as of now, U.S. authorities do not know who is responsible.
Thibault Camus/AP Photo
Rescue workers and medics work by victims at a Paris restaurant, Nov. 13, 2015.
ABC NEWS
ABC NEWS STADE DE FRANCE BATALCAN THEATER
@pierre75010/Twitter
Ambulances are seen in a photo shared on Twitter after news broke of explosions and shootings near Stade de France in Paris, Nov. 13, 2015.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Get real-time updates as this story unfolds. To start, just "star" this story in ABC News' phone app. Download ABC News for iPhone here or ABC News for Android here .
0 Shares
]
