A day after a Rajasthan farmer hanged himself from a tree during an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) rally at Jantar Mantar, the party’s government in Delhi and the police were on a collision course with the latter accusing the AAP and its leaders of instigating Gajendra Singh into committing suicide.
Denying the charges, the AAP acc used the police of inaction.
The police, in its FIR on the incident, said AAP members obstructed their efforts to rescue Singh.
Refusing to cooperate with the magisterial probe ordered by the Delhi government, a special investigation team of the police left Thursday for Gajendra Singh’s home in Nangal Jhamarwada village in Bandikui. Inspector S S Yadav, who was on duty at the AAP rally on Wednesday, registered the FIR at the Parliament Street police station under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 34 (common intention).
Last year, after then ministers Somnath Bharti and Rakhi Birla conducted raids in their constituencies, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet had staged a demonstration outside Rail Bhawan for two days, seeking action against police officers.
In the FIR on the suicide, Inspector Yadav stated he had “urged AAP workers to refrain from egging on the farmer instead of helping him down to safety.
But neither the workers nor the leaders on stage assisted me in this.
Meanwhile, the farmer had tied his gamchha (towel) around his neck and the other end to the branch.
Police had by then called for the fire service to arrange for a ladder.
Also, seeing the farmer tying the gamchha, the workers alerted the AAP leadership seated at the stage about the incident.
The other workers and leaders applauded in response. Egged on by the crowd, Gajendra hanged himself, suspended by his gamchha and parts of his body stuck at odd positions in the branches of the tree.
”The FIR alleged that AAP workers prevented police from bringing down the body and insisted they do it which led to the farmer’s body falling to the ground.
“When police tried to rush him to hospital, AAP workers prevented them from doing so, claiming the farmer was an AAP worker and that they would take him to hospital.
By the time the farmer was taken to hospital, doctors declared him brought dead,” the FIR stated.