The body of farmer Gajendra Singh who committed suicide at a rally called by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been taken to his home in Dausa, Rajasthan.
Even as Singh's family is trying to come to terms with the tragedy, there is no end to political blame game over the issue.
The issue is also set to rock Parliament on Thursday. Janata Dal United (JDU), Samajwadi Party (SP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPM have given notice for suspension of question hour in the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to discuss the situation.
Meanwhile, Congress Rajasthan President Sachin Pilot will meet the farmer's family on Thursday.
The Aam Aadmi Party is facing flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress for not doing enough to save the farmer.
On the other hand, Kejriwal accused the police of inaction and said it was an attempt to "sabotage" his party's rally.
An FIR has been registered against unknown persons for abetment to suicide.
The case has been handed over to the crime branch. Sources say a Crime Branch team is going to Dausa to conduct a background check.
It will also probe lapses by the rally organisers and Delhi Police.
Delhi Police officials say that no written permission was given for the rally and they had appealed to the organisers to change the venue from Jantar Mantar to the more spacious Ramlila ground.
In a letter written, the Delhi Police had advised AAP organisers to opt for a larger venue like Ramlila Maidan for their Kisan rally to protest against Land Acquisition Bill.
The letter was written when police received intelligence input of almost 20,000 people gathering for the rally while Jantar Mantar only has a capacity to accommodate about 5,000 people.
According to the sources, it would have been easier to handle the crowd at a larger venue.
A senior police official said that negotiations to change the venue were on till the end but organisers were adamant to start their march from Jantar Mantar and 'gherao' Parliament.
Delhi Police has also registered an FIR against unknown persons in connection with the alleged suicide of a Rajasthan-based farmer Gajendra Singh during the rally and probe has been handed over to the Crime Branch.
A case has been registered under sections 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 306 (Abetment of suicide), 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code.
Gajendra Singh, a resident of Nangal Jhamarwada village in Dausa, also left a suicide note stating that he had three children and had been disowned by his father due to crop damage after recent rains and hailstorm.
A purported suicide note was also recovered from the spot which also had his family's contact number.
